NFT-guide (#65)
autonomys/developer_docs: pages/NFT-guide/NFT-guide.mdx

---
title: Sending NFTs
---

## Sending NFTs

> *Note:* NFT minting and transfers are currently available exclusively on the **Taurus** testnet using the Autonomys NFT contract deployed at `0x505c243ec05dF81bC33295fF7C135D4D98063Da5`.

This guide walks you through sending NFTs on Autonomys using Remix, a Metamask-connected wallet, and the Eternal Mint platform.

---

> ### Why Use This Method?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### NFTs on Autonomys Network
```

Autonomys NFTs offer a significant advantage over traditional NFT infrastructure.

> > **Unlike platforms that rely on IPFS**, Autonomys stores NFT metadata directly on **Autodrive**, our permanent decentralized storage layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Unlike platforms that rely on IPFS**, Autonomys stores NFT's metadata and digital assets directly on **[Auto Drive](https://ai3.storage/)**, our permanent decentralized storage.
```

> - 🔒 Your NFT metadata is **never at risk of disappearing** due to expired IPFS pins.

Reviewer: Not only the metadata, but the digital asset (image, music file, etc) too.

- 🌐 Each NFT is linked to a **permanent Autodrive CID** that ensures long-term storage.
- 🚫 No third-party dependency for metadata — your NFT will never go offline.

---

### Quick Start Guide

This guide assumes you have experience with MetaMask and Remix. 

---

### Step 1: Mint Your NFT

1. Visit [Eternal Mint](https://eternalmint.xyz/).
2. Mint your NFT.

> 3. Once minted, **copy your NFT’s Token ID** — you’ll need it to send the NFT.

Reviewer: Let's add a short guide on minting NFTs with a few screenshots here, please

2. Create a new Solidity file (e.g. `NFTTransfer.sol`), or use the deployed contract. Contract Address: 0x505c243ec05dF81bC33295fF7C135D4D98063Da5:

3. Compile the contract using the Solidity compiler tab.

![NFT-guide-1](/developers/NFT-guide/NFT-guide-1.png)

---

### Step 3: Connect Remix to MetaMask

1. In Remix, navigate to the **Deploy & Run Transactions** panel.
2. Set the Environment to **Injected Provider - MetaMask**.
3. Connect your MetaMask wallet that’s configured to the **tAI3.0** testnet.

![NFT-guide-2](/developers/NFT-guide/NFT-guide-2.png)

---

### Step 4: Deploy or Load the NFT Contract

- If deploying a new contract: Click **Deploy** and confirm in MetaMask.
- If using the existing NFT contract: Paste the deployed contract address into the `At Address` field and click **At Address**.

![NFT-guide-3](/developers/NFT-guide/NFT-guide-3.png)

---

### Step 5: Use `safeTransferFrom` to Send Your NFT

Scroll down to the **Deployed Contracts** section and find the `safeTransferFrom` function. Fill in the following fields:

- `from`: Your wallet address (the current NFT holder)
- `to`: The recipient’s wallet address
- `id`: Token ID of the NFT you want to send

> - `value`: Number of NFTs to send (usually `1`)

Author: @EmilFattakhov The field 'value' is the number of NFTs we can send. So, we could send from 1 to the max supply of NFTs for that Token ID.

But, we can only send copies of that one specific NFT (b/c we specify Token ID).

> - `value`: Number of NFTs to send (usually `1`)

Author: @EmilFattakhov I'm currently testing a function that can send an NFT to multiple people at one time.

> - `value`: Number of NFTs to send (usually `1`)

Reviewer: @ryyeung one of the main characteristics of the NFT is that it's unique, one NFT = one owner.
